---
layout: default
title: Publications
---

## 📚 Publications, Articles, and Patents 

### **[Patent - Parts Sorting System - Patent # 11,861,301]([link-to-publication1](https://patents.justia.com/patent/11861301))**
*Published in [Publication Venue]*  
A method, apparatus, and computer system for grouping parts. Sets of unigrams are generated from text in part lists for parts in a family of parts using natural language processing, wherein a set of unigrams in the sets of unigrams represent components for a part in the parts. A document term matrix is created using the sets of unigrams. The document term matrix describes a presence of components in the parts. A number of unigrams from the document term matrix that has occurrences in the document term matrix that are greater than a common design threshold is removed. Removing the number of unigrams from the document term matrix forms a processed document term matrix. The common design threshold identifies a level of occurrence not useful in differentiating the parts from each other. The parts are clustered into groups using the processed document term matrix..

An embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for grouping parts. Sets of unigrams are generated by a computer system from text in part lists for parts in a family of parts using natural language processing. A set of unigrams in the sets of unigrams represent components for a part in the parts. A document term matrix is created by the computer system using the sets of unigrams. The document term matrix describes a presence of components in the parts. A number of unigrams from the document term matrix that has occurrences in the document term matrix that are greater than a common design threshold is removed by the computer system. Removing the number of unigrams from the document term matrix forms a processed document term matrix. The common design threshold identifies a level of occurrence not useful in differentiating the parts from each other. The parts are clustered by the computer system into groups by using the processed document term matrix.

Yet another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a method for grouping parts. Sets of unigrams are generated by the computer system from text in part lists for parts in a family of parts using natural language processing. A set of unigrams in the sets of unigrams represent components for a part in the parts. A document term matrix is created by the computer system using the sets of unigrams. The document term matrix describes a presence of components in the parts. A number of unigrams from the document term matrix that has occurrences in the document term matrix that are greater than a common design threshold is removed by the computer system. Removing the number of unigrams from the document term matrix forms a processed document term matrix. The common design threshold identifies a level of occurrence not useful in differentiating the parts from each other. Features are determined by the computer system from the unigrams in the processed document term matrix. The features are formed from a combination of the unigrams. The unigrams are replaced by the computer system with the features in the processed document term matrix. The parts are clustered by the computer system into groups using the processed document term matrix.

Still another embodiment of the present disclosure provides a part analysis system. The part analysis system comprises a computer system and a part analyzer in the computer system. The part analyzer is configured to generate sets of unigrams from text in part lists for parts in a family of parts using natural language processing. A set of unigrams in the sets of unigrams represent components for a part in the parts. The part analyzer is configured to create a document term matrix using the sets of unigrams. The document term matrix describes a presence of components in the parts. The part analyzer is configured to remove a number of unigrams from the document term matrix that has occurrences in the document term matrix that are greater than a common design threshold. Removing the number of unigrams from the document term matrix forms a processed document term matrix. The common design threshold identifies a level of occurrence not useful in differentiating the parts from each other. The part analyzer is configured to cluster the parts into groups using the processed document term matrix.

The features and functions can be achieved independently in various embodiments of the present disclosure or may be combined in yet other embodiments in which further details can be seen with reference to the following description and drawings.


